h1. ScaleRep


h2. Prerequisites

* github
* postgres
* ruby 2.4.2
* rails 5.0.7


h2. Installation and Setup

1. Download ScaleRep from the github repository
2. Create the necessary user and database on your local postgres database. The config/database.yml file contains development credentials for postgres
3. Start the project

$ rails db:drop
$ rails db:create
$ rails db:migrate
$ rails db:seed
$ rails s



h2. Front-end Framework

The example in the GitHub repository was built with the Bootstrap 3 front-end framework. The "rails_layout":https://github.com/RailsApps/rails_layout gem is included so you can switch to the Foundation front-end framework.


h2. Accounts You Will Need

Devise provides a "Forgot Password?" feature that resets a password and sends instructions to the user. You'll need an email service provider to send email from the application. You can use "Gmail":https://accounts.google.com/SignUp?service=mail during development. You can get a free "Gmail":https://accounts.google.com/SignUp?service=mail account if you don't already have one. For production, Gmail is not robust. Use transactional email services, such as "Mandrill":http://mandrill.com/, to send email in production. See the article "Send Email with Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-send-email.html for more information.

We provide instructions to deploy the application to "Heroku":https://www.heroku.com/ which provides Rails application hosting. It costs nothing to set up a Heroku account and deploy as many applications as you want. To deploy an app to Heroku, you must have a Heroku account. Visit Heroku "to set up an account":https://id.heroku.com/signup/devcenter.


h2. Testing

The example application includes tests for RSpec with Capybara.


h2. Devise Modules

The example in the GitHub repository uses Devise with default modules.


h2. Troubleshooting

If you get an error "OpenSSL certificate verify failed" or "Gem::RemoteFetcher::FetchError: SSL_connect" see the article "OpenSSL errors and Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/openssl-certificate-verify-failed.html.


h2. Configuration File

To consolidate configuration settings in a single location, we store credentials in the *config/secrets.yml* file. To keep your credentials private, use Unix environment variables to set your credentials. See the article "Rails Environment Variables":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-environment-variables.html for more information.

Add your credentials to the file *config/secrets.yml*:

<pre>
# Make sure the secrets in this file are kept private
# if you're sharing your code publicly.

development:
  admin_name: First User
  admin_email: user@example.com
  admin_password: changeme
  email_provider_username: <%= ENV["GMAIL_USERNAME"] %>
  email_provider_password: <%= ENV["GMAIL_PASSWORD"] %>
  domain_name: example.com
  secret_key_base: very_long_random_string

test:
  secret_key_base: very_long_random_string

# Do not keep production secrets in the repository,
# instead read values from the environment.
production:
  admin_name: <%= ENV["ADMIN_NAME"] %>
  admin_email: <%= ENV["ADMIN_EMAIL"] %>
  admin_password: <%= ENV["ADMIN_PASSWORD"] %>
  email_provider_username: <%= ENV["GMAIL_USERNAME"] %>
  email_provider_password: <%= ENV["GMAIL_PASSWORD"] %>
  domain_name: <%= ENV["DOMAIN_NAME"] %>
  secret_key_base: <%= ENV["SECRET_KEY_BASE"] %>
</pre>

All configuration values in the *config/secrets.yml* file are available anywhere in the application as variables. For example, @Rails.application.secrets.email_provider_username@ will return the string set in the Unix environment variable @GMAIL_USERNAME@.

For the Gmail username and password, enter the credentials you use to log in to Gmail when you check your inbox. See the article "Send Email with Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-send-email.html if you are using Google two factor authentication.

The values for @admin_email@ and @admin_password@ are used when the database is seeded. You will be able to log in to the application with these credentials. Note that it's not necessary to personalize the *config/secrets.yml* file before you deploy your app. You can deploy the app with an example user and then use the application's "Edit Account" feature to change email address and password after you log in. Use this feature to log in as an administrator and change the email and password to your own.

The variable @domain_name@ is used for sending email. You can use @example.com@ in development. If you already have a custom domain name you'll use when you deploy the application, you can set @domain_name@. If you deploy the application to Heroku, you'll set @domain_name@ with the unique name you've given your application on Heroku. You'll have to wait until you deploy to know the name you'll use on Heroku.

If you don't want to use Unix environment variables, you can set each value directly in the *config/secrets.yml* file. The file must be in your git repository when you deploy to Heroku. However, you shouldn't save the file to a public GitHub repository where other people can see your credentials.

h2. Roles

Roles are defined in the *app/models/User.rb* file (the @User@ model).

<pre>
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  enum role: [:user, :vip, :admin]
  after_initialize :set_default_role, :if => :new_record?

  def set_default_role
    self.role ||= :user
  end

  # Include default devise modules. Others available are:
  # :confirmable, :lockable, :timeoutable and :omniauthable
  devise :database_authenticatable, :registerable,
         :recoverable, :rememberable, :trackable, :validatable
end
</pre>

You can change the available roles by changing the array @[:user, :vip, :admin]@.

The application uses the ActiveRecord @enum@ method to manage roles. ActiveRecord provides convenient methods to query the role attribute:

<pre>
user.admin! # sets the role to "admin"
user.admin? # => true
user.role  # => "admin"
</pre>

See documentation for "ActiveRecord::Enum":http://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Enum.html for details.


h2. RSpec Test Suite

The application contains a suite of RSpec tests. To run:
<pre>
$ rspec
</pre>


h2. Useful Links

* "Active Record Enum":http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Enum.html for roles
* "Devise":https://github.com/plataformatec/devise for user management and authentication
* "Bootstrap":http://getbootstrap.com/ or "Foundation":http://foundation.zurb.com/ front-end frameworks
* "Role-Based Authorization Tutorial":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-devise-roles
* "Rails and Devise":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-devise
* "RSpec Tutorial":http://railsapps.github.io/rspec.html
* This application extends the "rails-devise":https://github.com/RailsApps/rails-devise example application to add role-based authorization using Active Record Enum.
* This "rails-devise-roles":https://github.com/RailsApps/rails-devise-roles example application adds authorization, showing how to implement user roles, and limit access to pages based on user role.
* See the article "Installing Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/installing-rails.html for instructions about setting up Rails and your development environment.


|_. Getting Started |_. Articles |_. Tutorials |
| "Ruby on Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/ruby-and-rails.html |                                     "Analytics for Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-google-analytics.html |                 "Rails Bootstrap":http://railsapps.github.io/twitter-bootstrap-rails.html |
| "What is Ruby on Rails?":http://railsapps.github.io/what-is-ruby-rails.html |                        "Heroku and Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-heroku-tutorial.html |                     "Rails Foundation":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-foundation.html |
| "Learn Ruby on Rails":http://learn-rails.com/learn-ruby-on-rails.html |                              "JavaScript and Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-javascript-include-external.html |     "RSpec Tutorial":http://railsapps.github.io/rspec.html |
| "Rails Tutorial":https://tutorials.railsapps.org/rails-tutorial |                                    "Rails Environment Variables":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-environment-variables.html |    "Rails Devise Tutorial":http://railsapps.github.io/tutorial-rails-devise.html |
| "Ruby on Rails Tutorial for Beginners":http://learn-rails.com/ruby-on-rails-tutorial-for-beginners | "Git and GitHub with Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-git.html |                        "Devise RSpec":http://railsapps.github.io/tutorial-rails-devise-rspec-cucumber.html |
| "Install Ruby on Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/installing-rails.html |                           "Send Email with Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-send-email.html |                     "Devise Bootstrap":http://railsapps.github.io/tutorial-rails-bootstrap-devise-cancan.html |
| "Install Ruby on Rails - Mac OS X":http://railsapps.github.io/installrubyonrails-mac.html |          "Haml and Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-haml.html |                                  "Rails Membership Site with Stripe":https://tutorials.railsapps.org/rails-stripe-membership-saas |
| "Install Ruby on Rails - Ubuntu":http://railsapps.github.io/installrubyonrails-ubuntu.html |         "Rails Application Layout":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-default-application-layout.html |  "Rails Subscription Site with Recurly":https://tutorials.railsapps.org/rails-recurly-subscription-saas |
| "Ruby on Rails - Nitrous.io":http://railsapps.github.io/rubyonrails-nitrous-io.html |                "HTML5 Boilerplate for Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-html5-boilerplate.html |        "Startup Prelaunch Signup Application":https://tutorials.railsapps.org/rails-prelaunch-signup |
| "Update Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/updating-rails.html |                                      "Example Gemfiles for Rails":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-3-2-example-gemfile.html |
| "Rails Composer":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-composer/ |                                        "Rails Application Templates":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-application-templates.html |
| "Rails Examples":http://railsapps.github.io/ |                                                       "Rails Product Planning":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-product-planning.html |
| "Rails Starter Apps":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-examples-tutorials.html |                      "Rails Project Management":http://railsapps.github.io/rails-project-management.html |

